What is Amazon QuickSight used for?
Amazon QuickSight allows everyone in your organization to understand your data by asking questions in natural language, 
exploring through interactive dashboards, or automatically looking for patterns and outliers powered by machine learning.

Amazon Cognito:
Amazon Cognito lets you add user sign-up, sign-in, and access control to your web and mobile apps quickly and easily.
Amazon Cognito scales to millions of users and supports sign-in with social identity providers, such as Apple, Facebook, Google, and Amazon, 
and enterprise identity providers via SAML 2.0 and OpenID Connect.

AWS Backup --enables you to centralize and automate data protection across AWS services. 
It helps you support your regulatory compliance or business policies for data protection


SQS info
This would work, but it can't be used in this scenario as the maximum execution time for a Lambda function is 15 minutes.

What is ETL service?
ETL stands for extract, transform, and load and is a traditionally accepted way for organizations to combine data from multiple systems into a single database, 
data store, data warehouse, or data lake.


Nacl  -stateful     :SG   -stateful
      -subnet level :     -instance level 

Ephemeral ports(PPT-683)
For any two endpoints to establish a connection, they must use ports

VPC Peering --connection between two VPC privately. VPC's can be in same or different account  

Fargate--Serverless for Docker.To scale just increase the number of tasks.

No EFS and EBS integration Fargate

EC2 Auto Scaling --does not support multiple regions

EC2 & ELB --cost even not used

LAMBDA --no cost when not used

Amazon DynamoDB --will incur RCU/WCUs when running and is not the best choice for storing images
                --supports in-place atomic updates 
                --supports increment and decrement atomic operations

Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX) -Reduce response time from micro to milli secs.

Amazon EC2 instance store  --block storage made for high trough put and low latency. 

Amazon DynamoDB with on-demand enabled --supports automatically scaling read and write capacity
 
Amazon DynamoDB and Amazon S3 --support gateway endpoints, not interface endpoints

Amazon S3 -- supports writing the files using api calls

There is no data transfer cost between eC2 & S3 with in same region.

Amazon S3 One zone IFA --storage class has a minimum capacity charge per object (128 KB) and a per GB retrieval fee

EBS & Instance stores --cannot be shared between instances.

Instance stores
- Reads a large amount of data from Amazon S3
- Performs a multi stage analysis
- Writes the results to Amazon DynamoDB 

CloudTrail can be created which delivers log files to an Amazon S3 bucket

Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery network (CDN) that improves website performance by caching
content at edge locations around the world. It can serve both dynamic and static content

Snowball capacity 75GB

Application Load Balancers-- Layer 7,HTTP(s), connection termination (SG's)
Network Load Balancers-- Layer 4,TCP & UDP , No connection termination (SG's)

Oracle SQL Developer --import a simple, 20 MB database;
Oracle Data Pump     --to import complex databases or databases

Amazon Global Accelerator endpoint --used for directing
users to different instances of the application in different regions based on latency

Amazon CloudFront --used to stream video to users across the globe using a wide variety of
protocols that are layered on top of HTTP. This can include both on-demand video as well as real time
streaming video.
                  --When a user requests your content, CloudFront typically serves the requested content regardless of where
the user is located. If you need to prevent users in specific countries from accessing your content, you can
use the CloudFront geo restriction feature

Amazon Cloudfront --For geolocation restriction

Amazon Kinesis Data Streams --collect and process data in real time. A Kinesis data stream is a set of
shards. Each shard has a sequence of data records. Each data record has a sequence number that is
assigned by Kinesis Data Streams

Placement group disadvantages:
1) Although launching multiple instance types into a placement group is possible, this reduces the
likelihood that the required capacity will be available for your launch to succeed.
2) A placement group can't span multiple Availability Zones.
3) You can't move an existing instance into a placement group.
4) A placement group can span peered VPCs 

AWS Import/Export supports:
1)Import to Amazon S3 
2)Export from Amazon S3 
3)Import to Amazon EBS 
4)Import to Amazon Glacier

EC2 Partial instance-hours are billed to the next hour.

EC2-Classic --you must use security groups created specifically for EC2-Classic. When you
launch an instance in EC2-Classic, you must specify a security group in the same region as the instance.
You can't specify a security group that you created for a VPC when you launch an instance in EC2-Classic. 

Amazon Aurora   {        --create snapshot and encrypt }
Amazon RDS      {                                      }

Amazon Aurora -- provides  effective Recovery Point
Objective (RPO) of 1 second and a Recovery Time Objective (RTO) of less than 1 minute, providing a strong
foundation for a global business continuity plan.

Amazon Elastic Beanstalk -- automatically handles deployment,auto-scaling,load balancing

AWS Database Migration Service --to easily migrate or replicate your existing databases to Amazon RDS

AWS WAF -- The AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF) is available on the Application Load Balancer (ALB). You can
use AWS WAF directly on Application Load Balancers (both internal and external) in a VPC, to protect
your websites and web services. 

HTTP on port 80 is the default health check. 

Amazon CloudFront -- The maximum size of a single file that can be delivered through Amazon CloudFront is 20 GB. This limit
applies to all Amazon CloudFront distributions. 

AWS PrivateLink --A PrivateLink is between a VPC and another resource.

Amazon FSx --for Windows File Server provides fully managed, highly reliable, and scalable file storage that
is accessible over the industry-standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. It is built on Windows Server,
delivering a wide range of administrative features such as user quotas, end-user file restore, and Microsoft
Active Directory (AD) integration


!!!Keyword matching!!!


Key-value storage -- DynamoDB

Concurrent Access to files + Deliver High Performance -- FSx

least amount of disruption -- DMS (easy data migration) and BeanStalk (easy mgmt of code/compute)

cannot save data to EBS from Kinesis

Availability -- Multi-AZ

reduced cost+increased bandwith+(remain connection or consistent network) -- direct connect VPC
 
Static=S3
Decouple=SQS Queue
Scalable=ASG

Encrypted channel --VPN

Attribute         NAT instance         NAT Gateway

Security group    Yes                  No
Basition server   Yes                  No
port forwarding   Yes                  No  

Spot blocks -- step instance with defined duration 



!!!Lookups!!!

From Dumps_SAA-C02
137
138
153
179



!!!Topics-lookups!!!

1) storage gateway
2) VPC part-2

















